Add logging support to PennyLane's execution pipeline (#4383)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/development/guide/logging.rst

faster to perform this check:

.. code:: python

   if logger.isEnabledFor(logging.DEBUG):
       logger.debug(
           """Entry with args=(arg_name_1=%s, arg_name_2=%s, ..., arg_name_n=%s)""",
           arg_name_1, arg_name_2, ..., arg_name_n,
       )

The above line can be added to below the function/method entry point,
and the provided arguments can be used to populate the log message. This
allows us a way to track the inputs and calls through the stack in the
order they are executed, as is the basis for following a trail of
execution as needed.

All debug log-statements currently added to the PennyLane execution
pipeline output log level messages with the originating function making
that call, as this can allow us to track hard-to-find bug origins in the
execution pipeline.

Customizing the logging configuration
-------------------------------------

As with any package that targets many domains, Python’s logging is as
extensible and flexible as it is a challenge to configure for all user needs 
– ideally we define some good defaults that meet our development goals, 
and only deviate from them if required. For further details and customization 

> options I will suggest reading the Python logging documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
options, consider reading the Python logging documentation
```
Removing first person

`how-to <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#python%20logging>`__
and `“advanced”
tutorial <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html#logging-advanced-tutorial>`__
level. 

PennyLane logging defaults are contained in a configuration file in the logging module titled 

> ``log_config.toml``, which is imported when logging is enabled. To change log-levels that are 

Reviewer: Where can a user find this file? Shall we mention `config_path`?

Author: Added the path info call.

reporting on a package or module-wide basis, it is possible to do so by 
modifying the entries in the ``log_config.toml`` file, under the ``[loggers]``
section. In addition, if we want to send the logs elsewhere, we can
adjust the ``[handlers]`` section, which controls what happens to each
message. If we do not like the output format of the messages, we can
adjust these through the ``[formatters]`` section. If we want to filter
messages based on some criteria, we can add these to the respective
handlers. As an example, we can go through the configuration file and
explore the options.

Modifying the configuration options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To allow for good expressivity when requiring logging, we must often
adjust several parts of the ecosystem to ensure messages are formatted a
certain way, we control logging internally to PennyLane different to
external packages, messages are sent to somewhere we can make them
actionable, and we can remove messages that are not needed based on some

> criteria of interest. I’ll break the ``log_config.toml`` file into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
criteria of interest. Let's break the ``log_config.toml`` file into
```

Logging development guidelines
==============================

Enabling logging
----------------

To enable logging support in your PennyLane work-flow simply run the following lines:

.. code:: python

   import pennylane as qml
   qml.logging.enable_logging()

This will ensure all levels of the execution pipeline logs function entries, and
outputs to handlers pointing to the standard output.

Adding logging supports during development
------------------------------------------

To add logging support to components of PennyLane, we must define a module logger and ensure all scoped log statements use that logger. A logger can be imported and defined with:

.. code:: python

   import logging
   logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

which will be used within the given module, and track directories,
filenames and function names, as we have defined the appropriate types
within the formatter configuration (see

> ``pennylane.logging.formatters.formatter.py::DefaultFormatter``). With

Reviewer: Can now link to this class in the docs.

Logging support in PennyLane
============================

Enabling logging
----------------

To enable logging support in your PennyLane work-flow simply run the following lines:

.. code:: python

   import pennylane as qml
   qml.logging.enable_logging()

This will ensure all levels of the execution pipeline logs function entries, and
outputs to handlers pointing to the standard output.

Adding logging supports during development
------------------------------------------

> To get started with adding logging to components of PennyLane, we must
> first define a logger per module that we intend to use with the logging
> infrastructure, and ensure all scoped log statements are using this
> logger. The first steps is to import and define a logger as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add logging support to components of PennyLane, we must define a module logger and ensure all scoped log statements use that logger. A logger can be imported and defined with:
```

Feel free to ignore. Just trying to cut down on wordiness a little.

them to the appropriate sink. The logging framework supports many such
directions (see
`here <https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.handlers.html>`__ for
more info), but for this example we have defined stream handlers
(printing to the screen via the standard output), and a file handler
with a size cap at 16MB. Each handler can be customized by filters and
formatters so that the consumed message fits the needs of the user.

.. code:: toml

   ###############################################################################
   # Define logger controls for internal and external packages
   ###############################################################################

   [loggers]

   # Control JAX logging 
   [loggers.jax]
   handlers = ["qml_debug_stream",]
   level = "DEBUG"
   propagate = false

   # Control logging in the executing Python script
   [loggers.__main__]
   handlers = ["qml_debug_stream",]
   level = "DEBUG"
   propagate = false

   # Control logging across pennylane
   [loggers.pennylane]
   handlers = ["qml_debug_stream",]
   level = "DEBUG" # Set to 1 for highest verbosity
   propagate = false

   # Control logging specifically in the pennylane.qnode module

>    # Note the required parenthesis to overcome TOML nesting issues

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   # Note the required quotes to overcome TOML nesting issues
```

   [loggers."pennylane.qnode"]
   handlers = ["qml_debug_stream_alt",]
   level = "DEBUG" # Set to 1 for highest verbosity
   propagate = false

   ###############################################################################

Finally, the ``loggers`` section which controls the individual loggers
across the packages we are using. Python’s logging framework follows a
parent-child hierarchy, where a logging configuration set at a parent
level will set all child levels with the same features. In this
instance, we have configured JAX, PennyLane and our script to all log
into the ``qml_debug_stream`` handler we defined earlier, and modified

> the child logger ``"pennylane.qnode"`` (parenthesis needed due to TOML

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the child logger ``"pennylane.qnode"`` (quotes needed due to TOML
```

parsing limitations) to use a different logger, in this case
``qml_debug_stream_alt``. We are free to define the module/package
log-level here (we opt for ``DEBUG`` for all), and to also use multiple
handlers per logger (such as for logging to the standard output and
files through ``qml_debug_stream`` and ``qml_debug_file``
simultaneously). Given the complexity explosion with configuring these
options, the default features in ``log_config.toml`` all use the same
log-level, and handler, which can be adjusted based on developer needs.

Logging example with PennyLane and JAX’s JIT support
----------------------------------------------------

As mentioned above, we have added execution function entry logging
supports, including some supports for each target interface. We can
examine this support for both internal and external packages, where we
enable logs for JAX, which has support for Python-native log messages.

> To enable logging specifcally for JAX, we can modify the ``level``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable logging specifically for JAX, we can modify the ``level``
```
also, you say "we can modify the `level`", but use the same level value as above. is that intentional?

Author: In this case yes, it is intentional. JAX's logger level is not set to the same one as the PennyLane loggers. This is showing we can also set JAX's log level to match that of PennyLane. 

I'll think about how to express this in a way to better declare intent.

Reviewer 3: to be clear, I mean that [the 4 lines below](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/f4269b8ad25a1ac26f9664713cdf071c42394bbc/doc/development/guide/logging.rst?plain=1#L256-L259) are the same as [the 4 lines above](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/f4269b8ad25a1ac26f9664713cdf071c42394bbc/doc/development/guide/logging.rst?plain=1#L201-L204). Are you talking about Jax's own logger (jax, and not pennylane/interfaces/jax)? I thought these configs change the logger for PennyLane's interface to jax, and not for jax itself. If it's the latter, how do we know the logger name is just `loggers.jax`? I'm now guessing it is for jax itself, since our interface's `__name__` would be "pennylane.interfaces.jax"...

Author: This is controlling the behaviour of the jax internal logger, not our jax interface.
We can control any external package log-level and behaviour in this way.

All logging is hierarchical in Python, so assuming there exists some nested logger in the package, setting the log level at the package name will override all internals, unless explicitly expressed otherwise. In this way, just using the `jax` package name for the logger is enough to enable debug level log messages to propagate up.

Author: Ah, apologies, I see what you mean now. That earlier JAX entry should be WARN. I'll update.

   key2 = jax.random.PRNGKey(1)

   logger.info(f"Running circuit with key={key1}")
   circuit(key1, jnp.pi/2)
   logger.info(f"Running circuit with key={key2}")
   circuit(key2, jnp.pi/2)
   logger.info(f"Calculating jacobian circuit with key={key1}")
   logger.info(f"Jacobian={jacfwd(lambda x: circuit(key1, x))(jnp.pi/3)}")

We can examine the output of the log-statements, which shows debug level
messages from JAX, and info-level messages for the given script
(controlled by ``[loggers.__main__]`` in the config file). To see
PennyLane-wide debug messages, we can revert the PennyLane log level to
debug, and rerun the script. There should be more output than previously
observed.

Adding log-statements to the interface execution pipelines
----------------------------------------------------------

Similarly, for autograd (TF and Torch also), we can run examples that
tie-into the execution pipeline for devices without backprop supports:

.. code:: python

   import pennylane as qml
   import logging

   qml.logging.enable_logging()

   # Get logger for use herein
   logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
   dev_name = "lightning.qubit"
   num_wires = 2
   num_shots = None

>    # Let's create our circuit with randomness and compile it with jax.jit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

   def circuit(param):

>        # Notice how the device construction now happens within the jitted method.
>        # Also note the added '.jax' to the device path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
